Welcome to the December 2024 edition
of JW Broadcasting®!
The 140th annual meeting
of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
of Pennsylvania
was held on October 5, 2024.
The program featured
encouraging spiritual talks and videos.
Please enjoy
the first part of the annual meeting!
So, what an eventful year it has been!
As expressed at Psalm 65:11,
Jehovah has indeed
‘crowned the year with goodness’
in a spiritual sense.
Since our last annual meeting,
Jehovah has directed his people
in many different ways,
reflecting his love and wisdom.
Of course, the most significant occurrence
is that we’ve welcomed back thousands
who had been removed from the congregation.
And certainly there has been
great “joy in heaven”
but here on earth as well.
We’re delighted to have these dear ones
back with us once again, wouldn’t you agree?
Also, we were thrilled
by this year’s conventions
featuring The Good News According to Jesus,
as we saw in the video prelude.
And we just completed a global campaign
to start Bible studies.
We see the growth
that’s taking place in the field.
And in other news, there’s a new product
in the Bethel commissary—beard butter,
not to be confused with the butter
that you spread on your toast.
Yes, adjustments to our dress and grooming
were also a highlight of the year.
Additionally, less than a year ago,
the PVC opened for tours,
not to be confused with polyvinyl chloride
for all you plumbers out there.
No, we’re talking about the PVC,
the Patterson Visitors’ Center.
Here’s an experience
from the first-century village.
A young girl was very impressed
by the village
and was trying to just understand,
or comprehend,
what she was seeing around her.
She noticed all the costumed attendants
walking around
demonstrating trades
or just speaking with the visitors.
She asked her mother,
“Are these resurrected ones?”
A young boy about ten was with his family
and enjoyed seeing a brother in costume
demonstrating the winepress.
Well, the family continued walking
through the marketplace
and then into the courtyard,
but the little boy kept coming back.
He kept coming back to the winepress,
and the costumed attendant told him,
“You must really enjoy it here.”
And he said, “Yes!”
Then the boy paused, and he said,
“I’m from the future.”
He went on to show his phone to the attendant
and show how he has the Bible on it.
The attendant explained
he’d seen others
come through the village with such devices,
but he only reads Hebrew.
The young brother looked at him and said,
“I have the Bible in many languages.”
So the young brother put himself
into the spirit of the time period
and was quite affected
by the impact of the Bible village.
So no doubt you too will enjoy your tour,
if you haven’t already gone.
Even if it’s a return visit,
you’ll still be delighted
to see people from the first century.
Now, in years gone by, Brother Russell Kurzen
(many of you remember him)
was sort of like the Bethel historian
because he would relate
specific events that occurred on that day
to the Morning Worship chairman, who often
would share them then with the Bethel family.
Well, today is October 5,
so put on your thinking caps for a moment.
What noteworthy events in history
have occurred on October 5?
Does “MENE, MENE, TEKEL, and PARSIN”
ring a bell?
Yes, the handwriting on the wall
appeared in Belshazzar’s palace
on October 5, 539 B.C.E.,
according to the Gregorian calendar.
But what about in our Common Era?
In the month of October 1924,
Jehovah’s people were busy
distributing around the world
a printed resolution entitled
Ecclesiastics Indicted.
Now, this is a copy of that tract, life-size.
Imagine distributing this tract
to people in your territory
or putting it in their doors.
The introduction to the resolution
stated the following:
“The indictment herein is laid chiefly
against the clergy,
“showing that they have fallen
before the temptations of Satan,
“proved unfaithful to the Lord
and to the responsibility resting upon them;
“and that this is the chief cause
of the world’s present deplorable state”
—strong words from the organization
back in 1924.
Point number three
of the resolution stated this:
“That they [the clergy] have failed
and refused to preach to the people
“the message of Messiah’s kingdom
“and to point them to the evidences
relating to his second coming;
“and being unwilling to await
the Lord’s due time to set up His kingdom
“and being ambitious
to appear wise and great,
“they have,
together with their co-conspirators,
“claimed the ability to set up
God’s kingdom on earth without God,
“and have endorsed the League of Nations
and declared it to be
“‘the political expression
of God’s kingdom on earth,’
“thereby breaking their allegiance
to the Lord Jesus Christ
“and declaring their allegiance to the devil,
the god of evil;
“and to this end they have advocated
and sanctified war,
“turned their church edifices
into recruiting stations
“[does that sound like any
of the churches in modern times?],
“acted as recruiting officers for pay,
“and preached men into the trenches,
there to suffer and die”
—quite a resolution—
Ecclesiastics Indicted.
Nothing has changed.
The clergy still teach lies, foment war,
and fail to preach the good news.
They’re still riding
on the back of the beast too.
Well, back in 1924, as reported
in the October 2024 study edition
of The Watchtower:
‘In the small town of Cleveland, Oklahoma,
‘Brother Frank Johnson
‘finished distributing the tracts
‘20 minutes before he was
to be picked up by other publishers.
‘Well, he couldn’t just wait out in the open
because men from the town
‘were angered
and they were seeking to find him.
‘So Brother Johnson
decided to hide in a nearby church.
‘Finding it empty,
‘he left copies of Ecclesiastics Indicted
‘in the preacher’s Bible and at each seat.
‘He exited the church
as quickly as he had come.
‘Well, he still had some time,
so he visited two more churches,
‘following a similar pattern.
‘Frank rushed back to the spot
where he was to be picked up.
‘He hid behind a fuel station,
‘keeping an eye out for the men
who were after him.
‘The men drove by, but they didn’t see him.
‘As soon as they were gone,
Frank’s fellow preachers,
‘who had been witnessing nearby,
arrived to pick him up,
‘and they all drove off together.
‘Now, as they were leaving town,
‘one of the brothers recalled:
‘“We passed by the three churches.
‘“There were as many as 50 people standing
out in front of each church.
‘“Some of the people were reading the tract,
‘“others were holding it up
for the preacher to see.
‘“Well, we had a very close call!”
‘He said: “But we thanked
Jehovah our God for his protection
and the knowledge to outwit
these enemies of the Kingdom.”’
So that’s part of our theocratic history,
your theocratic history.
You continue to preach
with the same boldness.
Those were exciting times,
but we too are living in exciting times.
On October 5, 2002,
it was announced at the annual meeting
that printing operations in the United States
would be moved from Brooklyn to Wallkill.
Amazing!
On October 5, 2013, what happened?
Likely you recall, Brother Jackson
released the revised New World Translation
in English.
Amazing!
On October 5, 2019, what happened?
The Ramapo project was announced.
Amazing!
Jehovah continues to bless his organization.
Well, what will we hear today?
Calls to action?
Kind reminders?
Exciting announcements?
Praise to Jehovah?
Absolutely!
And a few surprises along the way.
So don’t change the channel.
Ten years ago at the annual meeting of 2014,
we were introduced to the first epic episode
of the series Become Jehovah’s Friend.
And it was entitled
Jehovah Will Help You Be Bold.
Since that time, five additional
epic episodes have been released,
including Make Jehovah Happy,
Jehovah Forgives,
Does Jehovah Answer Prayers?,
Who Should Be My Friend?,
and  You Are Precious to Jehovah.
How these videos have helped
our young ones and really all of us
to visualize Bible accounts
and heavenly realities!
Well, we’re happy to inform you
that another epic episode
will soon be ready for release
but not just yet.
But we can show you the trailer
to increase anticipation.
It’s entitled Become Jehovah’s Friend
—The Greatest Act of Love.
Let’s watch.
I miss her so much.
Hey!
Soon, we’re having the Memorial,
and you have to come!
It’s the most important event.
He loves all of us.
He loves you.
Soon, Jesus will resurrect people,
and because he died for us,
we can all live forever!
It’s the greatest gift anyone could give us.
Mom!
Should we get ready for the Memorial?
Let’s do it!
Yay!
As we all go home tonight,
think about what Jesus’ sacrifice
means to you.
Certainly, we anticipate the release
of the full-length episode.
Well, the next part of our program
is a symposium from three members
of the Governing Body.
Each speaker will introduce the next.
But the first talk of our symposium
will be given by the longest-serving member
of the Governing Body, Brother Gerrit Lösch.
This past July, he completed 30 years
of serving on the Governing Body.
Brother Lösch will now discuss the theme
“Our Privilege to Glorify Jehovah.”
As you can see, this is a mirror.
Did you look into a mirror
before you came here?
Perhaps judging
by your neat and clean appearance,
you obviously did.
Ancient mirrors
were generally made of metal,
such as bronze or copper
and even silver and gold.
They had to be highly polished
but still did not have
finely reflecting surfaces
as do glass mirrors.
This is why the apostle Paul said
at 1 Corinthians 13:12:
“For now we see in hazy outline
by means of a metal mirror.”
Probably only in the first century
were glass mirrors introduced.
In the Scriptures,
we find two figurative uses
of the term “mirror.”
For instance,
at James chapter 1
verses 22-25, it says:
“However, become doers of the word
and not hearers only,
“deceiving yourselves with false reasoning.
“For if anyone is a hearer of the word
and not a doer,
“this one is like a man
looking at his own face in a mirror.
“For he looks at himself,
and he goes away
“and immediately forgets
what sort of person he is.
“But the one who peers
“into the perfect law that belongs to freedom
“and continues in it
“has become, not a forgetful hearer,
but a doer of the work;
and he will be happy in what he does.”
And the apostle Paul
showed that Christians reflect like mirrors
the glory of Jehovah in their ministry.
In 2 Corinthians chapter 3,
he wrote at chapter 3 and verse 18:
“And all of us,
“while we with unveiled faces
“reflect like mirrors the glory of Jehovah,
“are transformed into the same image
“from one degree of glory to another,
exactly as it is done by Jehovah the Spirit.”
And in chapter 4, verse 1, he says:
“Therefore, since we have this ministry
through the mercy that was shown us,
we do not give up.”
So God’s Word is compared to a mirror
that we can use to examine ourselves.
On the other hand,
Christians themselves
are also compared to a mirror
—a mirror that reflects Jehovah’s glory.
So how do the Scriptures
use the word “glory”?
Well, there are different types of glory.
At 1 Corinthians chapter 15,
verses 40-44, it says:
“And there are heavenly bodies
and earthly bodies;
“but the glory of the heavenly bodies
is one sort,
“and that of the earthly bodies
is a different sort.
“The glory of the sun is one sort,
“and the glory of the moon is another,
“and the glory of the stars is another;
“in fact, one star differs
from another star in glory.
“So it is with the resurrection of the dead.
“It is sown in corruption;
it is raised up in incorruption.
“It is sown in dishonor;
it is raised up in glory.
“It is sown in weakness;
it is raised up in power.
It is sown a physical body;
it is raised up a spiritual body.”
Now, let’s discuss five types of glory.
Of course, Jehovah has and deserves
the highest degree of glory.
Then there’s the glory of Jesus,
which is second to the one of God.
At John 1:14, it says:
“So the Word became flesh
and resided among us,
“and we had a view of his glory,
“a glory such as belongs
“to an only-begotten son from a father;
and he was full of divine favor and truth.”
—John 1:14.
The Bible shows that Jesus was given
more glory after his resurrection
than he had before he came to the earth.
It says: “Jesus, who was made
“a little lower than angels,
“now crowned with glory and honor
for having suffered death.”
—Hebrews 2:9.
The third point:
Annointed Christians
also have a measure of glory.
Jude verse 8 says
that in the first century there were some who
were “speaking abusively of glorious ones.”
Who were the “glorious ones”
in the first century?
Anointed overseers.
They had a measure of glory
when they lived on earth.
Number four:
When taken to heaven, all anointed,
not only anointed overseers,
will receive everlasting glory.
Second Timothy 2:10 says:
“For this reason I go on enduring all things
“for the sake of the chosen ones,
“so that they too may obtain the salvation
that is through Christ Jesus,
along with everlasting glory.”
But we have today
not a few but many glorious ones,
even sitting in the audience right here.
How so?
Because the expression “glorious ones”
refers also to elders with an earthly hope.
The Watchtower, 1997,
September 1, page 16,
paragraph 14 says:
“Christian elders represent
“the glorious Jehovah God and his Son
“and, as a result, have certain glory
“conferred upon them.
“True, they make mistakes,
as did Peter himself,
“but the Scriptures urge
members of the congregation
to be submissive to such glorious ones.”
(End of quote)
And number five:
There’s the glorious good news.
No matter what hope we have,
we glorify Jehovah
through our preaching and teaching.
Second Corinthians 4:3, 4 says:
“In fact, the good news we declare is veiled,
“it is veiled among those who are perishing,
“among whom the god of this system of things
“has blinded the minds of the unbelievers,
“so that the illumination
of the glorious good news
about the Christ . . .
might not shine through.”
How can we all glorify Jehovah?
Not only overseers and other adults
in the congregation
reflect Jehovah’s glory
but also children can do so.
Children, are you aware of it?
You too!
Yes, we all can glorify Jehovah.
How?
In at least six ways.
Starting with point one,
we glorify him through our prayers
and then also by singing Kingdom songs.
Another point,
we glorify him
by accumulating accurate knowledge.
Second Corinthians 4:6, therefore, says:
“For God is the one who said:
‘Let the light shine out of darkness,’
“and he has shone on our hearts
to illuminate them
with the glorious knowledge of God
by the face of Christ.”
Further, we glorify Jehovah
by our Christian conduct.
Yes, we absorb this light
of glorious knowledge of God
and transform our lives according to it.
It brings glory to Jehovah God.
One’s conduct can also cause others
to give glory to God.
Our conduct is not perfect.
We all know that.
Still, Jehovah accepts us.
However, that does not excuse us
from keeping ourselves as mirrors
in a clean and polished shape
as much as we can.
In the dark,
no mirror reflects anything
except darkness.
The mirror does not have
any glory or light in itself.
Similarly, we are aware
that any glory we might have
is just a reflection of God’s glory.
First Peter 2:12 says:
“Maintain your conduct fine
among the nations,
“so that when they accuse you
of being wrongdoers,
“they may be eyewitnesses of your fine works
“and, as a result, glorify God
in the day of his inspection.”
Further, we glorify him
by doing good to others.
At Matthew 5:16,
in the Sermon on the Mount,
Jesus himself showed
that preaching and teaching is not enough.
We need to do good things to others
aside from it.
We need to love our neighbors,
including those at our workplace.
This may prompt people
who are not Witnesses of Jehovah
to glorify God.
As Jesus put it (I quote):
“Let your light shine before men,
“so that they may see your fine works
“[so it’s not just preaching but fine works]
and give glory to your Father
who is in the heavens.”
What’s another way
we all can reflect the glory of Jehovah
like mirrors?
We glorify him by our preaching and teaching.
We want to conduct many Bible studies,
and we want to impart
“the glorious knowledge of God” to others.
“For God is the one who said:
‘Let the light shine out of darkness,’
and he has shone on our hearts
to illuminate them,”
says Paul at 2 Corinthians 4:6.
And he continues:
“Illuminate them
with the glorious knowledge of God
by the face of Christ.”
Many of us who are older
have had the privilege
of reflecting the glory of Jehovah
for perhaps decades.
Jehovah has allowed us
not only the privilege
of proclaiming the message
of the Kingdom
but also some have served
as elders, pioneers,
missionaries, Bethelites,
construction servants,
circuit overseers,
or Branch Committee members.
These are ways that we have reflected
the glory of Jehovah.
What a privilege we’ve had to do so,
haven’t we?
In spite of all these privileges,
we maintain a humble spirit.
We appreciate
that the privileges we have enjoyed
are an undeserved kindness from Jehovah.
Having enjoyed so many privileges,
what unique responsibility
do we as older ones now have?
We must allow
the next generation to come up
so that they too can enjoy
unique privileges in glorifying Jehovah.
They are the next generation
of circuit overseers,
Bethelites, missionaries,
construction servants,
Branch Committee members, and so on.
We want them to have the marvelous privilege
that we have enjoyed as well.
That means we must look for ways
to teach them, to train them,
to encourage them
so that they may use their youth and strength
and ability to glorify Jehovah.
What a privilege we have as older ones
to train and teach younger ones!
With that in mind,
it is a pleasure to announce
that two additional brothers
have been appointed to serve
as members of the Governing Body.
Well, Brothers Jody Jedele and Jacob Rumph
—both brothers are anointed Christians
who have a long history
of loyal service to Jehovah.
Brother Jedele began
his full-time service in 1989
and Bethel service in 1990.
Brother Rumph began
his full-time service in 1995
and Bethel service in 2020.
Both brothers served as helpers
to the Service Committee
of the Governing Body for a while.
We thank our heavenly Father, Jehovah,
for raising up such faithful men
to share in the work of the Governing Body.
We pray that Jehovah will richly bless
Brothers Jedele and Rumph and their wives.
We all worship our glorious God, Jehovah.
We have the glorious good news to spread.
Our whole life
is for the glory of his praise.
Paul wrote at 1 Corinthians 10:31:
“Whether you are eating or drinking
“or doing anything else,
do all things for God’s glory.”
Will you endeavor
to reflect like a mirror Jehovah’s glory
by making the truth manifest
in word and example?
What a privilege!
At the end of the Millennium,
faithful ones on earth
will receive and display a measure of glory
as perfect sons and daughters of Jehovah.
It says at Romans 8:21:
“The creation itself will also be set free
“from enslavement to corruption
and have the glorious freedom
of the children of God.”
So keep polishing that mirror.
Look at the mirror of God’s Word every day.
And like a mirror, reflect God’s glory
by what you say and do.
Appreciate your privilege
to glorify Jehovah God.
Help young ones
to take on privileges of service.
We trust you will,
and we wish you Jehovah’s rich blessing
in this endeavor.
So keep polishing
and keep reflecting the light.
But how can you, our young ones,
glorify Jehovah by serving,
for instance, at Bethel
and in theocratic construction?
What opportunities are available
for younger ones today?
For the answers to these questions,
let us now give our attention
to Brother Jeffrey Winder,
a member of the Governing Body,
who will share the next talk
in this symposium entitled
“Opportunities to Glorify Jehovah
at Bethel and in Theocratic Construction.”
Over 2,700 years ago,
Jehovah God inspired the faithful man Isaiah
to utter a prophecy
that you and I are seeing fulfilled
before our eyes.
It’s found in Isaiah chapter 60.
I invite you to turn there with me.
Isaiah 60
—and let’s read together verse 22.
That verse says:
“The little one will become a thousand
“and the small one a mighty nation.
“I myself, Jehovah,
will speed it up in its own time.”
Like passengers in a car
that is increasing in speed,
do you sense the momentum
of what Jehovah’s organization
is doing today?
Jehovah is accomplishing
a tremendous work worldwide
all in connection
with the Kingdom preaching work.
And in the face of Satanic attack
and the wickedness of the last days,
what Jehovah is accomplishing
truly glorifies his name.
But because so much work is being done,
there is a need for more workers
to keep up with this work.
And in this talk,
we’re specifically going to talk
about the needs at Bethel
and in theocratic construction.
Well, what is the need?
In Bethel, we have a constant need
for spiritually qualified men and women
who can help carry the load
of the ever-increasing and complex work.
And there is a particular need
for young brothers
who can apply to come to Bethel
and be trained and in time qualify
to serve as overseers
or to take the lead in departments
such as the Service Department,
Public Information Department,
Hospital Information Department,
and many others.
We need brothers
who can in time qualify to serve
on Branch Committees.
And even in branches
where the Bethel family is small,
we need young brothers to apply
because the brothers and sisters
who have been carrying the load for years—
We love them, but they’re getting older.
And they have a zeal for the work,
but they recognize the need to train others
so that Jehovah’s work can continue.
And what about theocratic construction?
Well, there, too,
there continues to be a need
for spiritually qualified men and women
who can help carry
the tremendous amount of work
that is taking place
in facility construction worldwide.
And there, too,
we need spiritually qualified men
who can be trained in time
to take the lead as trade overseers,
to serve as construction committee members,
and care for other assignments.
But how much work is there to do
in theocratic construction?
Just to give you a glimpse,
consider some of the needs
for Kingdom Halls
in a few countries in Africa.
Congo reports a deficit
of nearly 1,900 new Kingdom Halls.
Zambia reports a need
for over 900 new Kingdom Halls.
Mozambique and Angola
each have a need
for almost 500 Kingdom Halls.
And in Nigeria they have on their books
a need for 2,000 renovations
of Kingdom Halls
in addition to the new ones that they need.
And that’s not to mention
all the work taking place
in major branch construction,
the construction
of remote translation offices,
school facilities, Assembly Halls, and more.
Is there a need?
Absolutely!
Young ones,
especially you young ones in your teens
thinking about how you will use your life,
can you get involved in the Bethel work
and theocratic construction work?
Should you?
If you do, what will your life be like?
Would you live to regret it?
Or is it possible that it would lead
to a most fulfilling life
in this system of things?
Well, to help answer those questions,
we invite you to watch the following video,
which highlights comments
from ones who when they were young
made the decision
to get involved in Bethel work
or in theocratic construction work.
Watching this video
could be like looking at your life
in fast-forward.
If you choose the course
that these ones chose,
how would that turn out for you?
Let’s watch.
My name is Pavel.
I serve at the Finland branch.
My name is Brad Bourquin.
I’m serving in the Congo.
My name is Gina Slay.
My name is Christopher Slay.
And we serve in the Nigeria branch.
My name is Karen Ferro.
I live in Argentina.
I grew up in a sign-language congregation
because I have deaf parents.
And when I saw the Sign Language
Department for the first time,
I was so impressed by it,
and so I developed
my first love for Bethel service.
As a young man, there were
a lot of discussions with my father.
He wanted, really, what amounted to
a normal life in this system.
I think the contrast for me
was the joy of being a fellow worker
with Jehovah in the preaching work
and just to feel
that close friendship with him.
I drifted from my goal
and from serving Jehovah
because I didn’t have friends
in the congregation.
I only had friends in school.
I said: “Jehovah,
I want to start serving you.
I want to give you my all, but tell me how.
Give me a kick.”
The first step I took to be able to serve
was when I was 18.
I filled out a form to make myself available.
There was a construction project
in my circuit,
so with my older sister and two friends,
we started to work there.
It was relatively near us,
so we supported the whole project.
I would say by getting closer
to happy pioneers
—I realized that I was in the truth
and that they were in the truth,
but they were happier than me.
So I started regular auxiliary pioneering
and then regular pioneering.
In our congregation,
there was a special pioneer couple.
Before that, they served at Bethel,
and therefore they had a lot of experience.
I asked them questions:
“So I want to serve in Bethel.
What do I need to do?
Tell me.”
When I thought of Bethel,
I knew single sisters were serving there.
When I became aware
of the construction work,
I made myself available
to increase my service.
Serving Jehovah as fully as you can
is not a matter of just drudgery
and sacrifices in this system.
It’s actually the best way of life
we can live right now.
“Taste and see that Jehovah is good”
—that will not fail.
Be constantly active in serving Jehovah.
Sometimes it may seem
that it’s not much fun
—perhaps it may seem boring—
but actually
serving Jehovah brings
so much joy and many blessings.
At Genesis 48:15,
it refers to Jehovah as being “the true God
who has been shepherding me
during all my life until this day.”
Jacob realized that Jehovah
had taken him to a spiritual place
that he would never have been able
to go to on his own,
and I feel that Jehovah
has done that with me.
These friends are serving all over the globe
—aren’t they?—
some in their home branch territories,
others in foreign assignments.
But how did they describe their life?
Was it drudgery and sacrifice and regret?
No.
Each one of them in one way or another
said that it is the best way of life
that they could live.
And didn’t you love what Karen said?
‘Jehovah can take you to a spiritual place
that you could never get to on your own.’
Why do these ones
find so much joy in their service?
Well, one reason is because they know
they are filling a clear need
in Jehovah’s work.
And in this way, they’re working
shoulder to shoulder with God and Christ
in a work that is important to them,
and that brings meaning to their life.
A second reason
why they find so much joy
is highlighted for us
in the book of Psalms.
I invite you to turn with me, please,
to Psalm 145,
and let’s read together Psalm 145:2.
That verse says:
“All day long I will praise you;
I will praise your name
forever and ever.”
In Bethel
and in theocratic construction assignments,
you have the opportunity to serve Jehovah
all day every day, to praise Jehovah,
to glorify him with all your strength.
So all day of every day of your life
you are engaged in theocratic activities,
and that brings contentment and joy as well.
And did you notice
how each one of them got started?
In many cases, it was someone else
in the congregation or in the circuit
that encouraged them
to get involved in local projects,
to turn in their application,
and then their journey
just continued from there.
Young brothers and sisters,
we want you to be able
to get involved in this exciting work
as early as possible.
And so I have an exciting announcement
to read.
It reads this way:
“We are pleased to inform you
that the Governing Body has decided
“to reduce the minimum age requirement
to enter Bethel service
“or to assist
with theocratic construction projects
from 19 to 18 years of age.”
It goes on:
“This adjustment is effective immediately.
“Why the change?
“Here are three reasons
based on Bible principles.
“Reason number one:
“Jehovah is blessing his people with growth.
“Paul stated at Colossians 1:6
“that ‘the good news is bearing fruit
“‘and increasing in all the world,
“so it is also doing among you.’
“Today, we are thrilled to see
“how the good news continues to bear fruit
“and how much growth is taking place.
“We also see Jehovah’s spirit
at work in you young ones,
“and we want to open up to you
the opportunity
“to enter special forms of service
as soon as possible.
“Reason number two:
“Our current and future needs
require more young brothers
“to make themselves available
for expanded theocratic service.
“Why?
“Proverbs 20:29 says
“that ‘the glory of young men
is their strength.’
“There is a regular need for your help
to handle important assignments.
“And reason number three:
“We want you to benefit as soon as possible
“from additional theocratic training.
“Paul said at Philippians 3:8:
“‘What is more, I do indeed also consider
all things to be loss
“‘on account of the excelling value
“of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord.’
“Our heartfelt desire is
for as many of you young ones as possible
“to experience the unique
and special training of excelling value
“that is available at Bethel
and on theocratic construction projects.
“It will accelerate your training
in developing spiritual qualities
“and equip you to handle
more responsibility in the congregation
“and to address needs
at Bethel and in the field.
“So, young ones,
we encourage you to prayerfully consider
“whether you can make yourself available
to enjoy this special privilege of service.”
Isn’t that exciting?
So, truly, young ones,
we encourage you
to take advantage of this opportunity.
Glorify Jehovah
by getting involved in Bethel work
and in theocratic construction
as soon as possible.
Some of you, especially you sisters,
might have noticed that some of our comments
were weighted more toward encouraging
the young brothers to apply,
and the reason for that
is because of the need
that we have for these brothers
to take the lead and direct the work
as they grow and receive training.
But we would be remiss
if we did not acknowledge
the hard work and self-sacrifice
of the young sisters in the organization.
The fact is, you’re doing it.
You’re there.
You are with us at Bethel.
You are fully involved
in theocratic construction around the world.
Many of you are courageously accepting
foreign assignments.
And we truly love you for your example
and your life of self-sacrifice.
And now a word to the parents:
We know that you parents love your children,
and you want the very best future possible
for your young ones.
And so we encourage you
to set goals of full-time service
in front of your children
and help them to achieve these goals.
And will you miss them
if they should be called to Bethel
or if they go off
on a Kingdom Hall assignment somewhere?
Of course you will.
But don’t hold them back
and insist that they stay home with you
for fear of missing them.
You may be depriving them
of the most fulfilling life.
But, rather, can you be like Hannah?
Turn with me, please, to 1 Samuel chapter 1
—1 Samuel 1:28.
Jehovah blessed Hannah with a son.
And what did she say?
What did she do?
At 1 Samuel 1:28, she says:
“I, in turn, now lend him to Jehovah.
For all his days, he is lent to Jehovah.”
Can you “lend” your son or daughter
to Jehovah?
Why do we say “lend”?
It’s because Jehovah
will give them back to you.
In the new world,
you will have an eternity
to spend with your family together
in Paradise,
but right now we have a work to do.
So we thank you for training your young ones
to take the lead in full-time service.
Now, a comment
to our elders and circuit overseers:
What can you brothers do
to help the young ones
on the path to serving Jehovah full-time
in Bethel and in theocratic construction?
Well, are you encouraging Bethel service?
Are you helping the young ones to learn
how to get involved in local projects
with their Local Design/Construction Department?
You know,
school counselors are charting a path
for our young ones in school.
Shouldn’t we be doing the same?
To illustrate the impact
that you brothers can have
on the lives of these young ones,
a brother who works with us at Warwick
told us his experience.
And he said that when he was a teenager,
he wanted to go to Bethel,
but he hesitated
because he wasn’t sure if he could do it.
And he didn’t know
if there really was a need.
But his circuit overseer saw his potential
and gave him a Bethel application
and persisted in encouraging him
until he could see the need.
And he turned in his application.
Well, now he’s been serving for some years.
He’s married now, and he and his wife
are making a fantastic contribution.
But are there ones like that
in your congregation or in your circuit
who may be just on the fence
and would benefit from some encouragement?
You can truly make a difference
in how these young ones use their lives.
And finally,
a comment to the current generation
who is carrying the load of oversight
in Bethel and in theocratic construction:
We thank you for your years of service,
and to contemplate what Jehovah
has been able to accomplish with your help
is just fantastic.
And now we thank you
for training the next generation
so that the work can continue
and Jehovah can continue
to get his work done.
Now, we know that you desire
to continue in the work.
You have a zeal for the work.
And to feel productive
and have accomplishment and feel valued,
well, that’s very much connected to our joy.
We understand that.
But as we get older,
we know that there is a need
to train the next generation
so that Jehovah’s work can continue.
And we know that you love Jehovah
more than you do your personal privileges.
And, truly, we still want you involved.
The young ones need your experience
and your advice,
and young ones are wise to recognize
how much they can benefit
from your wisdom.
But we thank you for being ready
to hand the job to these ones
and then help them to succeed.
Well, to conclude,
we’d like to just mention one more prophecy
that we are seeing fulfilled before our eyes.
In this case, it’s in the book of Psalms,
and we invite you to turn to the 110th Psalm.
Psalm 110:3 says this:
“Your people will offer themselves willingly
“on the day of your military force. . . .
You have your company of young men
just like dewdrops.”
Well, as we’ve discussed,
Jehovah is speeding up the work.
And so, therefore,
there is a need for more workers.
Jehovah is willing to train you
and entrust you,
and Jehovah’s organization
is making arrangements
for you to get involved as early as possible.
Well, this verse reassures us
that you young ones will respond.
In fact, you are responding.
This verse is being fulfilled.
May you personally share
in the fulfillment of this verse
by taking advantage of opportunities
to glorify Jehovah
in Bethel and in theocratic construction.
But Bethel and theocratic construction
are only part of the work.
Does there continue to be a need
for more workers in the field?
Well, please give your attention
to Brother Mark Sanderson,
who will speak on the theme
“Opportunities to Glorify
Jehovah in the Field.”
It was 140 years ago,
in 1884,
when Zion’s Watch Tower Tract Society
was legally incorporated.
Now, I know
there are many gray beards here,
but I understand that none of you
were present on that occasion.
That’s reassuring.
It was just as Zechariah 4:10 says.
It was a “day of small beginnings,”
really just a handful.
But what has Jehovah
accomplished in the field
in the last 140 years?
Today, we have nearly nine million
who are preaching
the good news of God’s Kingdom
in some 240 lands
and with publications
in more than 1,000 languages.
Brothers, aren’t we moved to glorify Jehovah
for what he has accomplished?
But how did we get to this point,
and what has been a major factor
in the global expansion
that Jehovah’s organization
has experienced?
And what opportunities
are open in the field for our young ones?
Please watch.
When you think of a missionary,
perhaps you think of someone older
who has been preaching for many years.
But, of course,
many were very young when they started.
In fact, in the mid-to-late 1940’s,
30 percent
of the missionaries sent from Gilead
were under 24 years of age.
They were young, energetic, full of life,
willing to accept assignments
around the world,
and they accomplished incredible things.
For instance, in 1943,
we were preaching in 54 lands,
and the number of publishers
was still relatively small.
Jehovah blessed their hard work and zeal.
In just five years, the number of publishers
worldwide nearly doubled.
By 1953, it had doubled again,
and the reach of Jehovah’s organization
expanded to 143 lands.
That 10-year burst of activity
laid the foundation
for Jehovah’s organization
to grow into what it has become today,
over 8 million people
spread across 239 lands,
reaching billions with the truth.
Young missionaries
have directly contributed to the fulfillment
of Jesus’ words
by preaching the good news of the Kingdom
“for a witness to all the nations.”
But over 80 years have passed.
Perhaps you’re thinking,
‘Is there still a need
for missionaries today?’
What do the facts show?
We see tremendous growth
and potential for more growth
around the world.
What has happened
just during the past service year?
Mozambique had an all-time peak
in Memorial attendance
of well over 400,000.
That’s more than four times
the number of publishers in that land.
Angola averaged
over 900 new missionaries a month
—excuse me, new publishers a month.
That’s a lot.
Wow!
The Congo branch averaged
more than 1,300 new publishers a month.
And in the Philippines, on average,
more than 1,000 were baptized every month.
Well, brothers and sisters, in these places
that are experiencing rapid growth,
there is a huge need for more missionaries.
But there are also needs in other lands.
Many countries have been blessed
to have longtime missionaries
who have done excellent work,
but many of those faithful ones
have now passed on.
Others have had to leave their assignments
because of having to care for aging relatives
or because of their own health challenges.
So here’s the question,
Is there still a need for missionaries today?
The answer is absolutely yes.
There is a tremendous work to be accomplished
in the world in missionary service.
And enthusiastic and zealous young people
are still being sent out every year
to serve as missionaries.
For example, recently the Service Committee
sent 36 new missionaries to Madagascar
and 10 to Latvia.
Well, now, how do
these young missionaries feel
about their privilege of service?
Let’s watch.
Our main preaching need
at the moment in Madagascar
is the training of new ones.
We have new publishers
who are not even baptized yet
having progressive Bible studies.
So we were very happy to receive
new young missionaries being assigned.
When our Branch Committee learned
that we were going to get some
new missionaries in Latvia,
we were really thrilled.
We were three years as special pioneers,
and later we received this letter.
I was thinking: ‘Latvia?
What do you know about Latvia?’
My legs were trembling,
but then I said, “Oh, it’s exciting!”
For me, it’s still like a dream,
and sometimes I ask Franzi,
“Is it really real?”
I was expecting to go maybe
somewhere in Africa,
and they said: “No, no.
You will have beautiful snow.”
We’ve really felt these
new missionaries invigorating the field.
Their enthusiasm
is really pushing the work forward.
Now many publishers
are more active in service,
and the pioneer spirit is increasing.
I saw Jehovah’s blessing in our assignment,
especially by the children
in our congregation.
When they hug you,
you feel like home
and the language doesn’t matter anymore.
I love my missionary assignment
because it has opened my eyes
to something beautiful.
The ministry is simply amazing.
Being a missionary—
It’s something special.
But on the other hand,
it’s quite a normal Christian life
focused on preaching
and enjoying everyday life.
It’s OK to be afraid and to have doubts,
but give Jehovah a chance.
Being a missionary
is the biggest experience in my life.
My assignment strengthened my spirituality,
because now I know
I’m not afraid of more difficult tasks.
I agree.
So we need many more young people
to take up missionary service.
Well, that raises the question,
How do you become a missionary?
Well, the first step
is to enter full-time service.
And then after you’ve been
in full-time service for two years,
what do you need to do?
You need to apply
for the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
SKE is the door to missionary service.
You also need to have the spirit of Isaiah
when he said: “Here I am! Send me!”
Be willing to go
wherever the organization might assign you.
After you graduate SKE,
you could receive an assignment
to serve as a temporary special pioneer
in your home country
so that you can gain experience.
And if you do well in that assignment,
you could receive an assignment
to serve as a missionary in another country.
Missionary service is a thrilling opportunity
to bring the good news
to honesthearted people
in another part of the world.
We need young people
who want to “go, . . . and make disciples
of people of all the nations.”
Well, how old do you need to be
to apply for the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers?
Well, we’re very pleased to announce today
that the Governing Body has decided
that young brothers and sisters
21 years of age or older
may now apply to attend SKE.
Isn’t that exciting and wonderful?
But many of you young ones right now
are serving where the need is greater,
perhaps even in another country.
That’s wonderful.
But we encourage you now
to apply for the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers.
You see, this will allow the organization
to see where you could best be used
in the worldwide field.
Young brothers and sisters,
please seize this wonderful opportunity.
But what about those of us
who are a bit older?
What can we do to help these young people?
Let’s be generous in training them
and in sharing with them our experience.
Let’s help them to grow and encourage them
to reach out
for these wonderful opportunities
to glorify Jehovah.
When I was just 19 years old,
a brother invited me to attend
my very first annual meeting.
It was a special one,
the 100th anniversary
of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society,
held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
I was so excited
I thought I’d died and went to heaven.
I couldn’t believe that
that brother would invite me to attend
when I was so young,
but the encouragement from that experience
has stayed with me
right up until this very moment.
Brothers and sisters, what will you do?
What will you do to encourage
a young person to glorify Jehovah?
Certainly, Jehovah will bless you
if you look for ways to do so.
Well, the preaching work
is more urgent than ever before.
Will you read with me
Romans chapter 10, please?
Romans 10:13
—it says:
“For ‘everyone who calls
on the name of Jehovah will be saved.’
“However, how will they call on him
if they have not put faith in him?
“How, in turn, will they put faith in him
about whom they have not heard?
“How, in turn, will they hear
without someone to preach?
“How, in turn, will they preach
unless they have been sent out?
“Just as it is written:
“‘How beautiful are the feet of those
who declare good news of good things!’”
We need young ones, as verse 15 says,
to be “sent out” to preach the good news.
We need young ones to serve as pioneers
and special pioneers and missionaries.
We need them to apply
for the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
So Jehovah has accomplished an amazing work
over these past 140 years.
He’s blessed “the day of small beginnings.”
But brothers and sisters,
the work is not over yet.
Do you agree?
There are exciting opportunities
for our beautiful young people.
So young ones, what will you do?
You can now apply for Bethel
and construction service at age 18.
You can apply for the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers at age 21.
Put yourself in Jehovah’s hands.
Make yourself available.
You will never regret it.
And may we as older ones
do everything in our power
to encourage and train these young people.
Yes, as Brother Lösch said,
let’s ‘keep polishing those mirrors.’
Let’s keep looking for ways
to expand our ministry
and to glorify our wonderful
and our amazing God, Jehovah.
What a thrilling symposium!
We’re delighted to have
two new members of the Governing Body.
And we’re delighted by the adjustments
to the age requirements for Bethel Service
and for the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Did those changes come
as a bit of a surprise to you?
Well, that’s sort of related
to the next talk on our program.
Brother Geoffrey Jackson
will discuss the theme
“Don’t Be Surprised by Sudden Changes.”
Brother Geoff, you have our attention.
Well, I’m sure we all agree with this fact:
In recent years,
there have been a lot of changes.
Even since the last annual meeting,
there have been many changes.
Some of them perhaps
are a little surprising
or may seem to be sudden.
But, you know, brothers and sisters,
when we look back on
how these changes have come,
we can see that Jehovah
has gradually prepared us
for each of these adjustments and changes.
Let’s review
some of the recent changes we’ve had.
What changes have we seen
with regard to our understanding
of Bible teachings?
At the 2021 annual meeting,
we received an adjusted understanding
of John 5:29.
It was explained
that the “resurrection of judgment”
will not be a judgment of condemnation.
Rather, it will be more like
a period of probation.
The “unrighteous” mentioned at Acts 24:15
will have an opportunity
to gain everlasting life.
But their names will not be written
in “the book of life”
at the time of their resurrection.
To have their names
eventually written in that book,
these ones will need to respond positively
to the great educational work
that will take place
during the Thousand Year Reign.
Then, at the annual meeting in 2023,
we gained enhanced insight
into what we do know and what we don’t know
concerning Jehovah’s judgments.
We learned that the door of opportunity
for people to take a stand for the Kingdom
does not shut
when the great tribulation starts
with the destruction of false religion.
At that time, perhaps some
will be like the Egyptians in Moses’ day
who took a last-minute stand
and joined the Exodus of God’s people.
At the same annual meeting,
we adjusted our views
with regard to Jehovah’s judgments
of those who died in the Flood
and those who were destroyed
in Sodom and Gomorrah.
Also at that annual meeting,
an adjustment was made
regarding the reporting of our time
and activity in our preaching work.
Instead of focusing on reports,
we try to make good use
of every opportunity to witness.
Then we received
the 2024 Governing Body Update #2.
In that update, we saw the need to adjust
how we interact with those
who have committed serious sins
and have been removed from the congregation.
What other major adjustments
have we recently seen?
In our preaching work,
the emphasis now is
on starting Bible studies
and making disciples,
not on distributing literature.
To that end, the focus is
on starting meaningful conversations,
not just on using memorized presentations.
Were you surprised by these adjustments?
Perhaps so.
But as we look back,
we see how one adjustment in understanding
gradually helped us with the next adjustment.
Isn’t it true that gradually
Jehovah has prepared us?
And when we look back on it, we see
how logical this training has been
to refine our understanding.
But events in the world
likewise have changed.
It’s true that sometimes in the world,
you have sudden changes
—for example, the pandemic.
But oftentimes,
change in the world is gradual.
Isn’t it true
with regard to the view of morality,
homosexuality, abortion,
even what’s acceptable and not acceptable
with regard to conduct?
All of that has happened
gradually in the world.
And it’s not until you look back and see
how different the world is today
with regard to those matters
that we see
that there have been a lot of changes.
But this can be dangerous
because as things gradually change,
we might get used to gradual change
and forget that there are
some sudden changes
about to occur.
Let’s take our Bibles, please,
and if you turn with me
to the book of Luke chapter 21,
this is an example of sudden change.
In Luke chapter 21, notice there in verse 34,
the words of our Lord Jesus are recorded.
And he said in verse 34:
“But pay attention to yourselves
“that your hearts never become weighed down
“with overeating and heavy drinking
and anxieties of life,
“and suddenly
“[suddenly]
“that day be instantly
[instantly] upon you.”
It’s interesting to note
that Jesus had already said
that this day he was referring to
would occur at a time
that we don’t think is likely.
So, what lesson do we learn
from what Jesus said?
It’s a warning
—isn’t it?—
that we can’t just sit back and think:
‘Well, things are gradually going to develop.
‘We know which way it’s going.
‘And maybe it’s not
going to happen yet, you know.
We’ve got a little bit more wiggle room there
with regard to the schedule.’
But you see, that’s dangerous thinking.
Now, what we’re going to do
is consider two examples of areas
where perhaps we could be
a little guilty with regard to that
—for example, our view
with regard to the number of anointed ones
remaining on the earth.
Now, for many years, what did we think?
We thought, ‘Well, that number
will go down and down and down and down.’
Now, I don’t know about you, but me I—
You know, when that report came out
—just how many, how many, partakers?
And what were we thinking?
Well, probably, you know,
maybe we didn’t say it, but we were thinking:
‘You know, the number will go
down, down, down, down.
‘And there’ll be just
a couple of old guys in wheelchairs
who will get their reward.’
Well, I’m exaggerating,
but that was sort of the feeling, wasn’t it?
But now what have we seen in recent years?
Those numbers have gone up and up.
And not only that, younger brothers
have been appointed on the Governing Body.
Now, I know what you all are thinking,
‘Two new ones—how old are they?’
We know you’re not googling now,
but you will be.
But you see, we need to be careful
about what we’re thinking
with regard to the number
of anointed ones left on earth.
You see, 19 years ago,
I was appointed on the Governing Body.
Even I thought I was too young.
Now they tell me I’m not so young anymore.
But do we see the point?
What does the Bible actually tell us
with regard to this?
Well, it doesn’t say the number
would just dwindle down
to just having a few older ones left.
No, the great crowd of other sheep
will be judged on the basis
of how they deal with Christ’s brothers.
So that means
“the faithful and discreet slave”
as well as all the anointed
throughout the earth
will continue to be active in doing the work
and wanting and needing your support
right up until the time
that suddenly they will be reassigned.
And isn’t that what Matthew 24:31 says?
There will be a gathering,
the final gathering,
of the anointed
from all different parts of the earth.
So for us to think:
‘Well, you know, there are some new ones
on the Governing Body.
‘They don’t look too old.
Maybe we’ve got a little bit of extra time.’
No.
Jehovah is making sure
that “the faithful and discreet slave”
is continuing to work and is effective
right up until that time of reassignment.
So that’s one subject.
The second subject we’d like to talk about
is our view with regard
to the start of the great tribulation
with the destruction of Babylon the Great.
When we look through the Scriptures
in Revelation chapter 16,
what does it tell us?
That the waters would gradually dry up.
Yes, churches are losing support
in some countries, for example, Europe.
It wasn’t that long ago that most nations
in Europe were very religious.
But now people
are turning their backs on religion.
But, at the same time,
when we look at Africa and South America,
we see that religion
still has a strong influence.
So now what could that little voice
in our mind be saying?
‘Well, yeah, we see it.
‘It’s going in the right direction
but maybe not just yet.
We’ve got a little bit more time left.’
But, again, we need to remember
what the Scriptures tell us.
And if you turn with me this time, please,
to Revelation chapter 17,
this is one of the chapters
that describes
the destruction of false religion,
or in other words,
when the great tribulation starts.
So let’s read Revelation 17:17
and note, please, what it tells us:
“For God put it into their hearts
to carry out his thought,
“yes, to carry out their one thought
by giving their kingdom to the wild beast,
until the words of God
will have been accomplished.”
Now, what is this “one thought”?
Well, up to now, we’ve said the “one thought”
is their desire to turn on false religion.
And we can understand that
because the context is talking
about the destruction of false religion.
But you see, if you look back at that verse,
what is the “one thought”?
Now this means we have to adjust
our understanding—another change.
What does it say?
The “one thought” refers to the nations
being willing to hand over power,
their political power,
to the scarlet-colored
wild beast, the United Nations.
Let me repeat it because you’re in shock now
and you need to write this down.
OK.
The “one thought” refers to the nations
being willing to hand over power
to the United Nations.
Now, why is that exciting?
Well, the fact that nations
will eventually turn on religion
really isn’t that surprising, is it?
Gradually, we’ve seen that happening,
and we say:
‘Oh, yes.
Yeah, we see which way it’s going.’
But what about nations
empowering the United Nations
—handing over their personal political power—
so the United Nations has more power,
or it has teeth, as it were?
At the moment,
it’s like a toothless organization, isn’t it?
That seems unbelievable.
No nation does that.
But what is it that happens?
It is an act of God.
Jehovah puts that “one thought”
into the minds of the nations.
Yes, they will empower the United Nations
so that the United Nations
will be in a position
to take action against false religion.
Now, this adjustment in understanding
also means that we have to adjust
our understanding of verses 12 and 13.
So if you’re in Revelation 17,
please, let’s look at verses 12 and 13:
“The ten horns that you saw mean ten kings
“who have not yet received a kingdom,
“but they do receive authority as kings
“for one hour with the wild beast.
“These have one thought,
so they give their power
and authority to the wild beast.”
So up to now,
we’ve assumed these “ten kings,”
which represent all the political powers
and governments in the world at the moment,
did this during the last days by supporting,
first of all, the League of Nations
and then the United Nations.
But now what do we understand this to be,
seeing we understand verse 17?
Well, there will come a time
when all political powers on earth,
which includes many
who have never been part
of the seven world powers,
will see that they need
to collectively pool their power
by giving it to the United Nations
to try to solve
some of the problems in the world.
And they will rule, notice, what does it say?
“For one hour”—just a short period of time.
So this newly empowered United Nations,
from that time on,
will rule collectively for a short time,
but it will enable them
to destroy false religion
and fight against Jesus and Jehovah’s people.
Now, isn’t that exciting?
But now we’re back to our subject again,
you see, gradually things happen.
So we might say, ‘Well, yes, gradually,
I see Babylon the Great
is losing influence in some places
—maybe not yet—’
But don’t expect that you’ll see governments
gradually wanting to give over power.
They don’t want to do that.
It takes an act of God!
Jehovah will “put it into their hearts.”
This will occur with suddenness.
Yes, then the great tribulation will start
—a sudden change,
not something that happens gradually.
So, what have we learned in our discussion?
Well, yes, some things change gradually.
But, brothers and sisters,
remember there are some sudden things
that are about to occur.
Let’s remember the two things as a reminder.
First of all, the remaining anointed ones
will suddenly be taken to heaven
while they are still very active.
The second one,
Jehovah will suddenly move the nations
to give their political power
to the United Nations.
So, what’s the takeaway?
Don’t be complacent.
Don’t think,
‘Oh, this is going to gradually change.’
No, some things won’t gradually change.
They will occur suddenly as acts of God!
So be ready, and don’t be surprised
by sudden change!
Thank you, Brother Geoff.
You’ve given us much to think about.
We’ll probably have to watch that talk
a few times to get all the points.
What a faith-strengthening program!
The second part of the annual meeting
will be featured
as the broadcast for next month.
Now it’s time for our video postcard.
Let’s visit
our brothers and sisters in Italy.
This is a land of rich history,
vibrant culture,
and spectacular natural beauty
—from Lake Como and the Dolomites
in the north to the islands of Sicily
and Sardinia in the south.
Christianity found an early foothold
in Italy and spread rapidly.
Paul’s journeys took him to Syracuse;
Rhegium, known as Reggio today;
Rome; and Puteoli, near Naples.
The preaching work began
in modern-day Italy in 1891
when Brother C. T. Russell
visited the small town of Pinerolo.
The first congregation of Jehovah’s Witnesses
was formed here in 1908.
Meetings were first held
at the homes of two sisters.
Just as in the first century,
our brothers in the 20th century
faced stiff opposition.
The Fascist government and the clergy
suppressed the work of Jehovah’s Witnesses
for decades,
but our brothers persevered.
For example, in 1925,
our brothers disguised their first assembly
as a wedding in this hotel.
And Brother Remigio Cuminetti
and Sister Albina Protti
were actually married during the assembly.
Today, the Italy branch supports
more than 250,000 publishers
in Italy and the tiny Republic of San Marino,
which is bordered by Italy on all sides.
Our brothers preach in ancient villages
like Alberobello,
known for limestone dwellings called trulli.
And they publicly witness in iconic cities,
such as Florence and Venice.
To assist congregations
in Rome and Milan in the ministry,
a special initiative in 2023
encouraged neighboring congregations
to preach in those cities on the weekends.
Almost 13,000 publishers participated
and 63 new Bible studies were started!
Many refugees have come to Italy
from Africa, Asia,
and Eastern Europe.
To help our brothers learn to preach
in a foreign language,
the Italy branch organized 420 courses
in 35 languages,
including Amharic, Sinhalese,
Twi, and Ukrainian.
Of course, our postcard from Italy
would not be complete
without talking about food,
a delightful and important element
of Italian culture and tradition.
Along with its many wines,
Italy is known for its regional cuisines,
including pizzas,
pastas, and cheeses,
such as Parmesan
and handmade mozzarella.
The brothers and sisters
from the Pinerolo Sud Congregation
send us their warm love and greetings.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!